---
title: Cumulus Linux User Guide
author: Unknown
weight: 1
pageID: 8362527
bookFLatSection: true
aliases:
 - /old/Cumulus_Linux_User_Guide.html
---
# Cumulus Linux User Guide

## What is Cumulus Linux?

Cumulus Linux is the first full-featured Linux operating system for the
networking industry. The [Debian
Jessie](https://www.debian.org/releases/jessie/)-based,
networking-focused distribution runs on hardware produced by a [broad
partner ecosystem](http://cumulusnetworks.com/hcl/), ensuring unmatched
customer choice regarding silicon, optics, cables, and systems.

This user guide provides in-depth documentation on the Cumulus Linux
installation process, system configuration and management, network
solutions, and monitoring and troubleshooting recommendations. In
addition, the quick start guide provides an end-to-end setup process to
get you started.

This documentation is current as of March 27, 2019 for version 3.7.4.
Visit the [Cumulus Networks Web site](http://docs.cumulusnetworks.com)
for the most up to date documentation.

Read the [release
notes](https://cumulusnetworks.zendesk.com/knowledge/articles/360007793174)
for new features and known issues in this release.

### What's New in Cumulus Linux 3.7.4

Cumulus Linux 3.7.4 contains a number of new platforms, features and
improvements:

  - New [platforms](https://cumulusnetworks.com/hcl) include:

      - [FS.com](http://FS.com) N8500-48B6C (25G Tomahawk+)

  - [Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol
    (VRRP)](/old/Virtual_Router_Redundancy_-_VRR_and_VRRP.html#src-8362691_VirtualRouterRedundancy-VRRandVRRP-VRRP)

  - [Dynamic VRF route
    leaking](/old/Virtual_Routing_and_Forwarding_-_VRF.html#src-8362942_VirtualRoutingandForwarding-VRF-routeleaking)
    is now supported for EVPN

  - [802.1XÂ Multi Domain Authentication
    (MDA)](/old/802.1X_Interfaces.html) is supported for phone and PCs
    connected to the same port

  - [Multiple Dynamic Authorization Server
    (DAS)](/old/802.1X_Interfaces.html#src-8363046_id-802.1XInterfaces-CoArequests)
    support

  - [IGMP/MLD snooping](/old/IGMP_and_MLD_Snooping.html) is supported
    over VXLAN bridges on Broadcom switches

  - NCLU commands support [MLAG
    unnumbered](/old/Multi-Chassis_Link_Aggregation_-_MLAG.html)

  - [Ability to disable FEC on Mellanox
    switches](/old/Switch_Port_Attributes.html#src-8363026_SwitchPortAttributes-FEC)

  - [Lightweight network virtualization
    (LNV)](/old/Lightweight_Network_Virtualization_Overview.html) has
    been deprecated. The feature will be removed in Cumulus Linux 4.0.
    Cumulus Networks recommends you use [Ethernet virtual private
    network (EVPN)](/old/Ethernet_Virtual_Private_Network_-_EVPN.html)
    for network virtualization.

### What's New in Cumulus Linux 3.7.3

Cumulus Linux 3.7.3 contains a number of new platforms, features and
improvements:

  - New [platforms](https://cumulusnetworks.com/hcl) include:

      - Dell Z9264F-ON (100G Broadcom Tomahawk2)

      - Edgecore AS7816-64X (100G Broadcom Tomahawk2)

      - Edgecore AS7726-32X (100G Broadcom Trident3)

      - Edgecore AS7326-56X (25G Broadcom Trident3)

      - HPE SN2700M (100G Mellanox Spectrum)

      - HPE SN2100M (100G Mellanox Spectrum)

      - HPE SN2410M (25G Mellanox Spectrum)

      - Lenovo NE0152TO (1G Broadcom Helix4) now generally available

      - Penguin Arctica NX4804x (10G Broadcom Maverick)

  - The [EVPN duplicate address
    detection](/old/Ethernet_Virtual_Private_Network_-_EVPN.html#src-8362732_EthernetVirtualPrivateNetwork-EVPN-dad)
    freeze option lets you freeze a duplicate address permanently or for
    a certain amount of time

  - The [Cumulus Hyperconverged Solution
    (HCS)](/old/Cumulus_Hyperconverged_Solution_with_Nutanix.html)
    supports automated integration with the Nutanix Prism Management
    solution and the Nutanix AHV hypervisor

### What's New in Cumulus Linux 3.7.2

Cumulus Linux 3.7.2 contains a number of new platforms, features and
improvements:

  - New [platforms](https://cumulusnetworks.com/hcl) include:

      - Dell S5232F-ON (100G Trident3)

      - Delta AG9032v2 (100G Trident3)

      - Lenovo NE10032O (100G Tomahawk)

      - Lenovo NE2572O (25G Tomahawk+) - swp1 thru swp8 support 25G
        speed only

      - Lenovo NE0152TO (1G Helix4) - available for Early Access

  - On Facebook Voyager, the NCLU `net show transponder` command output
    shows the [Optical Signal to Noise ratio
    (OSNR)](/old/Facebook_Voyager_Optical_Interfaces.html#src-8363049_FacebookVoyagerOpticalInterfaces-showTransponderStatus)
    in the network

  - Support for [egress IPv6 ACL
    rules](/old/Netfilter_-_ACLs.html#src-8362563_Netfilter-ACLs-ipv6EgressRules)
    on Broadcom switches

  - Support for [VRF route leaking on Mellanox
    switches](/old/Virtual_Routing_and_Forwarding_-_VRF.html#src-8362942_VirtualRoutingandForwarding-VRF-routeleaking)

  - [RFC 5549 support with global IPv6
    peers](/old/Border_Gateway_Protocol_-_BGP.html#src-8362926_BorderGatewayProtocol-BGP-rfc-5549)

  - [EVPN duplicate address
    detection](/old/Ethernet_Virtual_Private_Network_-_EVPN.html#src-8362732_EthernetVirtualPrivateNetwork-EVPN-dad)

  - New TCAM profile for Mellanox switches
    ([ip-acl-heavy](/old/Netfilter_-_ACLs.html#src-8362563_Netfilter-ACLs-MS-limits))
    to support creation of 16K 3-tuple and 5-tuple IPv4 ACLs

### What's New in Cumulus Linux 3.7.1

Cumulus Linux 3.7.1 contains bug fixes only.

### What's New in Cumulus Linux 3.7.0

Cumulus Linux 3.7.0 contains a number of new platforms, features and
improvements:

  - New [platforms](https://cumulusnetworks.com/hcl) include:

      - QCT QuantaMesh BMS T4048-IX8 (25G Trident3)

      - QCT QuantaMesh BMS T7032-IX7 (100G Trident3)

      - Dell S5248F-ON (25G Trident3)

      - Penguin Arctica 4806xt (10G Trident 2+)

  - [Line side
    loopback](/old/Facebook_Voyager_Optical_Interfaces.html#src-8363049_FacebookVoyagerOpticalInterfaces-lineSideLoopback)
    and [Terminal
    loopback](/old/Facebook_Voyager_Optical_Interfaces.html#src-8363049_FacebookVoyagerOpticalInterfaces-terminalLoopback)
    mode for Facebook Voyager troubleshooting

  - OVSDB Server High Availability (Early Access)

  - [RADIUS Change of Authorization (CoA)
    requests](/old/802.1X_Interfaces.html#src-8363046_id-802.1XInterfaces-CoArequests)

  - RADIUS AAA local fallback authentication

  - TACACS+ local fallback authentication

  - EVPN enhancements

      - [Neighbor Discovery (ND) Extended
        Community](/old/Ethernet_Virtual_Private_Network_-_EVPN.html#src-8362732_EthernetVirtualPrivateNetwork-EVPN-ND_extended_community)
        support

      - Extended mobility support

      - ECMP support for overlay networks on RIOT-capable Broadcom
        switches

  - New NCLU commands:

      - [Show the version of a
        package](/old/Adding_and_Updating_Packages.html#src-8362631_AddingandUpdatingPackages-versionDisplay)

      - Show the interface description (alias) for all interfaces on the
        switch

      - Show which interfaces are in a VRF and the VNIs for VRF
        interfaces

      - Change bond mode to IEEE 802.3ad link aggregation mode

For information on bug fixes and known issues present in this release,
refer to the [product release
notes](https://support.cumulusnetworks.com/hc/en-us/articles/360007793174-Cumulus-Linux-3-7-Release-Notes).

### Open Source Contributions

To implement various Cumulus Linux features, Cumulus Networks has forked
various software projects, like CFEngine, `Netdev` and some Puppet Labs
packages. The forked code resides in the Cumulus Networks [GitHub
repository](https://github.com/CumulusNetworks).

Cumulus Networks has also developed and released new applications as
open source. The list of open source projects is on the [open source
software](http://oss.cumulusnetworks.com/) page.

### Hardware Compatibility List

You can find the most up-to-date hardware compatibility list (HCL)
[here](http://cumulusnetworks.com/hcl/). Use the HCL to confirm that
your switch model is supported by Cumulus Networks. The HCL is updated
regularly, listing products by port configuration, manufacturer, and SKU
part number.

{{%notice tip%}}

This section exists solely to provide a list of all the pages of the
user guide and is visible only to Cumulus employees who are designated
as **editors** in Confluence. This TOC is copied into a [Zendesk KB
article](https://support.cumulusnetworks.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015334927).
This should help GSS with case avoidance, since the KB article is
searchable by customers about to file a ticket in Zendesk.

{{%/notice%}}

  - [Quick Start Guide](/old/Quick_Start_Guide.html)

  - [Installation Management](/old/Installation_Management.html)

      - [Managing Cumulus Linux Disk
        Images](/old/Managing_Cumulus_Linux_Disk_Images.html)

      - [Installing a New Cumulus Linux
        Image](/old/Installing_a_New_Cumulus_Linux_Image.html)

      - [Upgrading Cumulus Linux](/old/Upgrading_Cumulus_Linux.html)

      - [Using Snapshots](/old/Using_Snapshots.html)

      - [Adding and Updating
        Packages](/old/Adding_and_Updating_Packages.html)

      - [Zero Touch Provisioning -
        ZTP](/old/Zero_Touch_Provisioning_-_ZTP.html)

  - [System Configuration](/old/System_Configuration.html)

      - [Network Command Line Utility -
        NCLU](/old/Network_Command_Line_Utility_-_NCLU.html)

      - [Setting Date and Time](/old/Setting_Date_and_Time.html)

      - [Authentication, Authorization and
        Accounting](/old/Authentication,_Authorization_and_Accounting.html)

          - [SSH for Remote Access](/old/SSH_for_Remote_Access.html)

          - [User Accounts](/old/User_Accounts.html)

          - [Using sudo to Delegate
            Privileges](/old/Using_sudo_to_Delegate_Privileges.html)

          - [LDAP Authentication and
            Authorization](/old/LDAP_Authentication_and_Authorization.html)

          - [TACACS Plus](/old/TACACS_Plus.html)

          - [RADIUS AAA](/old/RADIUS_AAA.html)

      - [Netfilter - ACLs](/old/Netfilter_-_ACLs.html)

          - [Default Cumulus Linux ACL
            Configuration](/old/Default_Cumulus_Linux_ACL_Configuration.html)

          - [Filtering Learned MAC
            Addresses](/old/Filtering_Learned_MAC_Addresses.html)

      - [Services and Daemons in Cumulus
        Linux](/old/Services_and_Daemons_in_Cumulus_Linux.html)

      - [Configuring switchd](/old/Configuring_switchd.html)

      - [Power over Ethernet - PoE](/old/Power_over_Ethernet_-_PoE.html)

      - [Configuring a Global
        Proxy](/old/Configuring_a_Global_Proxy.html)

      - [Copy of Netfilter - ACLs](/old/Copy_of_Netfilter_-_ACLs.html)

      - [HTTP API](/old/HTTP_API.html)

  - [Layer 1 and Switch Ports](/old/Layer_1_and_Switch_Ports.html)

      - [Interface Configuration and
        Management](/old/Interface_Configuration_and_Management.html)

          - [Switch Port Attributes](/old/Switch_Port_Attributes.html)

      - [Buffer and Queue
        Management](/old/Buffer_and_Queue_Management.html)

          - [Hardware-enabled DDOS
            Protection](/old/Hardware-enabled_DDOS_Protection.html)

      - [DHCP Relays](/old/DHCP_Relays.html)

      - [DHCP Servers](/old/DHCP_Servers.html)

      - [Facebook Voyager Optical
        Interfaces](/old/Facebook_Voyager_Optical_Interfaces.html)

      - [802.1X Interfaces](/old/802.1X_Interfaces.html)

      - [Prescriptive Topology Manager -
        PTM](/old/Prescriptive_Topology_Manager_-_PTM.html)

  - [Layer 2](/old/Layer_2.html)

      - [Spanning Tree and Rapid Spanning
        Tree](/old/Spanning_Tree_and_Rapid_Spanning_Tree.html)

      - [Link Layer Discovery
        Protocol](/old/Link_Layer_Discovery_Protocol.html)

          - [Voice VLAN](/old/Voice_VLAN.html)

      - [Bonding - Link
        Aggregation](/old/Bonding_-_Link_Aggregation.html)

      - [Ethernet Bridging - VLANs](/old/Ethernet_Bridging_-_VLANs.html)

          - [VLAN-aware Bridge Mode](/old/VLAN-aware_Bridge_Mode.html)

          - [Traditional Bridge Mode](/old/Traditional_Bridge_Mode.html)

          - [VLAN Tagging](/old/VLAN_Tagging.html)

      - [Multi-Chassis Link Aggregation -
        MLAG](/old/Multi-Chassis_Link_Aggregation_-_MLAG.html)

      - [LACP Bypass](/old/LACP_Bypass.html)

      - [Virtual Router Redundancy - VRR and
        VRRP](/old/Virtual_Router_Redundancy_-_VRR_and_VRRP.html)

          - [ifplugd](/old/ifplugd.html)

      - [IGMP and MLD Snooping](/old/IGMP_and_MLD_Snooping.html)

      - [Copy of Prescriptive Topology Manager -
        PTM](/old/Copy_of_Prescriptive_Topology_Manager_-_PTM.html)

      - [Copy of Spanning Tree and Rapid Spanning
        Tree](/old/Copy_of_Spanning_Tree_and_Rapid_Spanning_Tree.html)

  - [Network Virtualization](/old/Network_Virtualization.html)

      - [Static VXLAN
        Configurations](/old/Static_VXLAN_Configurations.html)

          - [Static VXLAN Tunnels](/old/Static_VXLAN_Tunnels.html)

          - [Static MAC Bindings with
            VXLAN](/old/Static_MAC_Bindings_with_VXLAN.html)

      - [Ethernet Virtual Private Network -
        EVPN](/old/Ethernet_Virtual_Private_Network_-_EVPN.html)

      - [Lightweight Network Virtualization
        Overview](/old/Lightweight_Network_Virtualization_Overview.html)

          - [LNV Full Example](/old/LNV_Full_Example.html)

      - [VXLAN Active-Active Mode](/old/VXLAN_Active-Active_Mode.html)

      - [VXLAN Routing](/old/VXLAN_Routing.html)

      - [VXLAN Scale](/old/VXLAN_Scale.html)

      - [Hybrid Cloud Connectivity with QinQ and
        VXLANs](/old/Hybrid_Cloud_Connectivity_with_QinQ_and_VXLANs.html)

      - [Troubleshooting VXLANs](/old/Troubleshooting_VXLANs.html)

      - [Virtualization
        Integrations](/old/Virtualization_Integrations.html)

          - [Integrating Hardware VTEPs with Midokura MidoNet and
            OpenStack](/old/Integrating_Hardware_VTEPs_with_Midokura_MidoNet_and_OpenStack.html)

          - [Integrating Hardware VTEPs with VMware
            NSX-V](/old/Integrating_Hardware_VTEPs_with_VMware_NSX-V.html)

          - [Integrating Hardware VTEPs with VMware
            NSX-MH](/old/Integrating_Hardware_VTEPs_with_VMware_NSX-MH.html)

          - [OVSDB Server High
            Availability](/old/OVSDB_Server_High_Availability.html)

      - [VXLAN Tunnel DSCP Operations
        âÂ DRAFT](/old/VXLAN_Tunnel_DSCP_Operations_â%C2%A0DRAFT.html)

      - [Eng Update of VXLAN
        Hyperloop](/old/Eng_Update_of_VXLAN_Hyperloop.html)

      - [VXLAN Active-Active](/old/VXLAN_Active-Active.html)

  - [Layer 3](/old/Layer_3.html)

      - [Routing](/old/Routing.html)

      - [Introduction to Routing
        Protocols](/old/Introduction_to_Routing_Protocols.html)

      - [Network Topology](/old/Network_Topology.html)

      - [FRRouting Overview](/old/FRRouting_Overview.html)

          - [Upgrading from Quagga to
            FRRouting](/old/Upgrading_from_Quagga_to_FRRouting.html)

      - [Configuring FRRouting](/old/Configuring_FRRouting.html)

          - [Comparing NCLU and vtysh
            Commands](/old/Comparing_NCLU_and_vtysh_Commands.html)

      - [Address Resolution Protocol -
        ARP](/old/Address_Resolution_Protocol_-_ARP.html)

      - [Open Shortest Path First -
        OSPF](/old/Open_Shortest_Path_First_-_OSPF.html)

      - [Open Shortest Path First v3 -
        OSPFv3](/old/Open_Shortest_Path_First_v3_-_OSPFv3.html)

      - [Border Gateway Protocol -
        BGP](/old/Border_Gateway_Protocol_-_BGP.html)

      - [Policy-based Routing](/old/Policy-based_Routing.html)

      - [Bidirectional Forwarding Detection -
        BFD](/old/Bidirectional_Forwarding_Detection_-_BFD.html)

      - [Equal Cost Multipath Load Sharing - Hardware
        ECMP](/old/Equal_Cost_Multipath_Load_Sharing_-_Hardware_ECMP.html)

      - [Redistribute Neighbor](/old/Redistribute_Neighbor.html)

      - [Virtual Routing and Forwarding -
        VRF](/old/Virtual_Routing_and_Forwarding_-_VRF.html)

      - [Management VRF](/old/Management_VRF.html)

      - [GRE Tunneling](/old/GRE_Tunneling.html)

      - [Protocol Independent Multicast -
        PIM](/old/Protocol_Independent_Multicast_-_PIM.html)

      - [Segment Routing](/old/Segment_Routing.html)

  - [Monitoring and
    Troubleshooting](/old/Monitoring_and_Troubleshooting.html)

      - [Single User Mode - Boot
        Recovery](/old/Single_User_Mode_-_Boot_Recovery.html)

      - [Resource Diagnostics Using
        cl-resource-query](/old/Resource_Diagnostics_Using_cl-resource-query.html)

      - [Monitoring System
        Hardware](/old/Monitoring_System_Hardware.html)

          - [Network Switch Port LED and Status LED
            Guidelines](/old/Network_Switch_Port_LED_and_Status_LED_Guidelines.html)

      - [Monitoring Virtual Device
        Counters](/old/Monitoring_Virtual_Device_Counters.html)

      - [ASIC Monitoring](/old/ASIC_Monitoring.html)

      - [Understanding the cl-support Output
        File](/old/Understanding_the_cl-support_Output_File.html)

          - [Troubleshooting Log
            Files](/old/Troubleshooting_Log_Files.html)

          - [Troubleshooting the etc
            Directory](/old/Troubleshooting_the_etc_Directory.html)

      - [Troubleshooting Network
        Interfaces](/old/Troubleshooting_Network_Interfaces.html)

          - [Monitoring Interfaces and Transceivers Using
            ethtool](/old/Monitoring_Interfaces_and_Transceivers_Using_ethtool.html)

      - [Network Troubleshooting](/old/Network_Troubleshooting.html)

          - [Using NCLU to Troubleshoot Your Network
            Configuration](/old/Using_NCLU_to_Troubleshoot_Your_Network_Configuration.html)

          - [Monitoring System Statistics and Network Traffic with
            sFlow](/old/Monitoring_System_Statistics_and_Network_Traffic_with_sFlow.html)

      - [Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP)
        Monitoring](/old/Simple_Network_Management_Protocol_\(SNMP\)_Monitoring.html)

          - [Using Nutanix Prism as a Monitoring
            Tool](/old/Using_Nutanix_Prism_as_a_Monitoring_Tool.html)

      - [Monitoring Best Practices](/old/Monitoring_Best_Practices.html)

      - [switchd Log Message
        Reference](/old/switchd_Log_Message_Reference.html)

      - [FRRouting Log Message
        Reference](/old/FRRouting_Log_Message_Reference.html)

  - [Network Solutions](/old/Network_Solutions.html)

      - [Data Center Host to ToR
        Architecture](/old/Data_Center_Host_to_ToR_Architecture.html)

      - [Cumulus Networks Services
        Demos](/old/Cumulus_Networks_Services_Demos.html)

      - [Docker on Cumulus Linux](/old/Docker_on_Cumulus_Linux.html)

      - [OpenStack Neutron ML2 and Cumulus
        Linux](/old/OpenStack_Neutron_ML2_and_Cumulus_Linux.html)

      - [Anycast Design Guide](/old/Anycast_Design_Guide.html)

      - [RDMA over Converged Ethernet -
        RoCE](/old/RDMA_over_Converged_Ethernet_-_RoCE.html)

      - [Cumulus Hyperconverged Solution with
        Nutanix](/old/Cumulus_Hyperconverged_Solution_with_Nutanix.html)

  - [Cumulus Linux Index](/old/Cumulus_Linux_Index.html)
